My name is Caitlyn.
I am the behavior intervention mentor
here at Dr.
Losier Middle School.
And we are going to talk
about restorative practices.
One of the ways I use
restorative practices in my day to day
here at the school is when students
will come to me with a conflict,
and we will work through it together
in a small group in my office.
Another way that I use restorative
practices in the school is
when a student may come to me
with conflict with a staff member,
such as a teacher, or in a
and sometimes it's, really beneficial
for them to sit down
with the adults and see the adult
participate in it with them.
And being willing participant,
and they sit and listen to each other's,
side of the story and what's happening.
And then they come to a,
resolution together.
It's really important
that both parties leave
feeling
like they have resolved the conflict.
When the two peers come together,
I always make sure that they're
both willing to participate
in a restorative conversation.
They take their turn
talking about the conflict, how
it made them feel, what's happening,
what they would like to happen at the end.
They always pause and wait
for the other person to say their piece.
There's no talking over each other.
There's always turn taking, and at the end
we leave with both parties feeling like
there is some kind of resolution
to the conflict that they're having.
Some tips that I have
is really making sure that both sides
have their time to talk,
and there's no interrupting.
They really need to say how they feel,
what happened, their side of the story
before the other person can
then come and say their part.
And it really makes them have empathy
for the other person.
Empathy for the other student,
or even when it's adult to student.
We see a lot of the students
kind of having moments
of how the teachers are feeling
or what the teachers are experiencing,
and then the teachers or, adult
staff members also are having kind of
like these big moments of realization
of how the students feel.
So it might have been like
something small, but it grows,
into like a bigger conflict
than it really needed to be.
And this really brings it all to light.
Everything's laid out,
and we don't leave until both parties
feel like they've accomplished
what they need to accomplish.
And they're both seeing each other side
and showing each other
empathy and coming out
feeling like it's been resolved.
One of the things I find in middle
school is when there is conflict
between students,
it's really common that these students
will go back to their friends
group, friend groups and talk about it
and never talk about it
directly with the person
they're having conflict with.
So that is one way that restorative
conversations have been really helpful,
because sometimes there is a conflict
between two students, and it ends up being
a class wide situation, when really it
could have been a one on one conversation
and it could have gotten fixed
in like one restorative conversation.
So that is one reason that I think
that it's a really good tool to use
in a middle school,
specifically because I feel like that,
really coincides with this age group.
Yeah.
Now I'm going to need to blooper.
Okay.
Yeah. Okay.
Sometimes the students will say
that it is uncomfortable
or awkward or cringe and I say, yeah.
Sometimes these conversations
can be awkward
and uncomfortable,
but with conflict comes growth.
And with myself,
they're mediating and saying, like,
you tell your side and you tell your side.
And I really think that it helps them
become flexible thinkers.
And it also helps them set boundaries
because they can say, no,
I'm not okay with this or no,
I didn't like when you said this.
And it it's really good
for their self-confidence
to to have those boundaries
and also be flexible thinkers
and see the other side of a conversation.
And it's a skill that we really hope
that they take on to high school
and then into their adult lives,
because it's a it's really a skill
that all adults should have as well.